okay,
goes,
we're gonna have a little break from the screen casts to ever look at the order of
mathematical operation.
Now you may remember this from your school days depend on how old you are.
I know I'm certainly old,
but it's critical to your success in Excel.
So let's have a look at the order of mathematical operation.
Or,
as I sometimes like to call it when you're formula doesn't do what you thought it would do
.
Okay,
let's move on.
Now when we using Excel,
we are at some point going to use complex formulas.
Now we're going to worry about complex formulas because complex doesn't necessarily mean
that they are complicated.
All a complex formula is is a formula that has more than one mathematical operator.
No,
don't be worried by the term mathematical operator,
either,
because you probably already know most of the common ones they are plus for addition,
minus for subtraction,
multiplication and division.
Okay,
so far,
so good.
Let's move on first,
let's cover how you think it would work.
So far,
we've created simple formulas.
We've done basic addition.
We've done basic multiplication basic subtraction on basic division,
now at the moment,
even when we did it the old fashioned way,
and we did this plus this,
plus this.
Plus this.
It was fine.
And we got the Ansari expected because we only use a single operator in the formula.
Whether we use that same operator over and over again makes no difference,
because you will always get the answer that you want.
So one plus one will always equal to on one plus one plus one plus one plus one will always
equal five.
And this is because we use only one mathematical operator.
But if we were to say three plus three divided by two and we wrote the formula as we said
it,
that is equals because it's a Formula three plus three divided by two.
We may think that we already know that the answer should be three.
But in Excel it isn't the actual answer would be 4.5.
If that just blew your mind.
Don't more acres were about to have a look at how it actually does work in Excel now.
Since mathematics began,
mathematical operations have always been executed in the same order.
Anything in brackets is always done first.
Next comes any multiplication parts of the formula.
After that comes any division part of the formula.
Fourth,
we do any addition,
parts of the formula.
And finally we do any subtraction,
If you think that's going to be difficult to remember,
just remember the phrase Bless my dear Aunt Sally,
and you'll notice that that is the order of mathematical operations.
In the first letter of each of those words,
so be would be brackets.
M would be multiplication d would be Division a would be addition and s would be
subtraction.
So when in doubt,
just remember Bless my dear on Sally.
Okay,
let's have a look at how it works.
Now when we say a formula like three plus three divided by two,
this is what we do in our head.
We first say three plus three on we work out that that equal six So far,
so good.
Then we take care of six and we divided by two,
which gives us the answer of three.
Which is why you may have thought that the answer to the formula we just looked at would be
three.
But remember,
bless my dear,
aren't Sally the order of mathematical operation now because the D for division comes
before a for addition.
In our phrase,
Bless my dear Aunt Sally.
We have to adapt own formula,
so it actually works in that order.
So in a formula,
the division will always be done before the addition.
Because D comes before the A.
So the way Excel will actually do it is it will do the division part first.
So what it will say is three divided by two is 1.5,
and then that's the division out of the way.
Then comes the addition parts of it.
So we already know the answer to our three divided by two is 1.5,
which we can see here on.
No Excel will execute the addition part of the formula,
which is the three plus our answer,
which gives us the answer.
4.5 on That is how excel will do it every single time.
It will always do anything brackets first.
It will then do It's multiplication.
Zit will then do.
Its divisions will then do it's additions,
and finally it will do the subtractions So ever.
Formula three plus three,
divided by two,
will actually be done as three divided by two and then three will be added to the answer.
OK,
so now let's look at a good habit to get into.
Now,
when you're planning your formula in your head,
it may help you to think about it in terms of brackets.
First.
If we looked at the three plus three in the formula we've just done,
we would know that that would be calculated first because B comes before everything else.
So three plus three would be six on Ben because we'd already bracketed that off and it's
already being calculated with them.
Divide the outside by three because everything comes after the brackets.
If in doubt,
just remember the phrase.
Bless my fear aren't Sally so our actual formula in Excel would be equals.
Open brackets three plus three divided by two on.
We could see that Excel would know Work out three plus three.
Give us our answer of six and divide that answer by two,
which would give us the answer of three.
And that's the way to structure your formulas.
So you always get the answer you expect now.
Hopefully,
that's made it a little bit clearer for you.
But when in doubt always remember the phrase.
Bless,
my dear,
aren't Sally.
So if the formula you just entered doesn't give you the result that you thought it would
always take a look at it and see if you can insert brackets around the things that you
thought would execute first.
Within a few days of writing your own formulas,
you'll be an absolute master of this.
Don't worry.
So when and does Just remember.
Bless,
my dear,
Aren't Sally on That gives you the order of mathematical operation.
Okay,
See you in the next lecture.